hi my name is eyes'll I'm vegan guy
behind me is actually uh Edward Snowden
he's not vegan I'm making this video in
response to a controversy that in 2015
has grabbed a lot of attention around
the world inside the vegan community at
least but I don't want to talk about it
in a way that's only gonna be
interesting or meaningful six months
into the future when I make a video I'd
like to talk about issues that I myself
might want to come back and think about
five years from now ten years from now I
try to talk about the deeper broader
underlying issues here and not the
details of this controversy that people
are only gonna care about in the short
term for me this controversy raises a
bunch of issues that seem to be
invisible to everyone else who's jumping
on it that's why I wrote a letter to Joe
best man at center of the controversy
and part of what I'm gonna do in this
video is read that letter out add a few
comments as I go what's the big issue
here the real big issue is to ask
ourselves what is the future of veganism
what's it going to be the tie fruit
festival currently is one of the most
influential iconic events in the world
connected to veganism it's high profile
and because so many of its participants
have a big web presence they broadcast
what they're doing on the Internet it
reaches a much larger audience than the
number of people actually show up and
participate people go to that conference
seem to have no connection to social
reality in Thailand is that ok well
let's flip it around what is the future
of veganism gonna be it can't be bikini
models on Instagram I'm not even saying
it shouldn't be it can't be that's not
the future of veganism right like
photographs yourself getting a manicure
and living a life of luxury and hanging
out in the beach this stuff is marginal
to veganism at
and it's being broadcast in a way that
really right now puts it at the center
I'm somebody who lived and worked and
did research in Thailand for years
Thailand Laos Cambodia Yunnan also Hong
Kong and Taiwan
my first diploma is in political science
my political science perspective shows a
little bit in this video I'm now getting
2nd diploma in Asian Studies I care
about politics in Asia I care about
vegan issues in Asia I care about
ecological issues like deforestation in
Asia and there are articles on the
internet I wrote about that years ago
when you look at the Instagram profiles
and you look at the YouTube pages for
the participants in this conference in
Thailand there's no connection to any of
those issues now some people will say
that's not the point the point is just
to have fun the point is just to get a
manicure and hang out in the beach and
take photographs of the food you eat and
the luxury hotels and the resorts is
that the point to me that sounds like an
ego trip and look this letter I wrote to
Joe best no no Joe best is on an ego
trip also but for me that's a real
concern and for me that raises deeper
and broader issues about what is the
future of veganism what is the future of
Thailand what's the future of veganism
in Thailand and this peculiar social
movement of white Western people having
basically an annual conference on
veganism within Thailand
I think it's that's what I'm here to
talk about one man's sex life one
short-term sex scandal for me that
shines a light on these deeper issues
but I'm not all that interested I'm not
going to harp on the details of what
happened in this particular scandal
pretty much everyone watching this video
in 2015 will already know those details
and people who watch it five years in
the future then won't know one that
won't care just a letter I wrote a joke
hi Joe I'm also a vegan and I have years
of experience living in Thailand Laos
Cambodia as well as other parts of Asia
during my years in Asia I had many
conversations with small business owners
such as yourself foreigners who have
started small hotels restaurants and so
on as a disclaimer one of the things I
found hilarious was the presumption of
so many of your critics that you would
have a hard time finding a girlfriend in
Chiang Mai of all places I could only
think these people know nothing about
Thailand and of course is rather sad
that your critics are still unaware of
the extent to which beauty is in the eye
of the beholder
so what I'm alluding to here is that
many of the people attacking Joe best
basically at the opinion Joe best is fat
therefore it is impossible that he could
have a relationship with an amateur
bikini model impossible I didn't add
this in to hate on anybody real talk
beauty is in the eye of the beholder
there isn't one objective standard that
separates a guy like Joe from a girl
like Jill there isn't one standard that
separates people or there isn't one
standard that bring them together either
conversely I'm aware that there are
women who find fat men attractive and so
on I can't imagine how naive or
sheltered many of these people who hate
you must be to imagine that it's
extraordinary or even unusual for a fat
man to end up with a skinny woman or
vice versa I think that part of the trap
that Thailand presents the foreigners
such as yourself is precisely that so
many of the businesses exists just to
support the lifestyle of their owners I
wasn't surprised at all to hear in your
recent videos that your hotel isn't
making money ie that it may just barely
break even that's the case for the vast
majority of Westerners who own small
hotels and restaurants have spoken to
you in Thailand Laos and Cambodia often
Westerners run such things in their
retirement and spend their savings to do
so part of the attraction for many of
them is precisely the sex life that this
allows them and as I say this may be a
bit of a trap
some people are drawn to Thailand for
sex some for sex drugs and rock and roll
some for sex yoga and lectures about
reincarnation it's all a trap all those
permutations and combinations offer a
sort of ego trip for the person who is
paying the rent it is really easy for
the landlord eg yourself to fall into a
loop of treating people as his friends
who can't really criticize them if they
don't want to hear him play the guitar
or simply don't share his taste in music
are they going to say it they're in a
situation where they're rewarded for a
certain type of phony
pandering behavior there's a video up of
Joe best playing the guitar for his
captive audience I forget I think there
were maybe five young women in the shop
with him and you know there's also young
woman holding the camera you can hear
her voice I think that's Jill herself
filming this and some of the women at
least are scantily clad and Joe best you
know the shot pans over to Joe best play
the guitar and he is glowing with ego
now look I don't think sex is evil human
ego comes pretty close to evil that kind
of ego trip is dangerous
including dangerous for the people who
are on it and he's probably realized
that now in retrospect there's nothing
evil about playing the guitar for your
friends or tenants but there is a real
slippery slope here the audience becomes
part of the performance people
pretending to be your friends pretend to
like your music and you the landlord
start to lose track of what's real and
what isn't the categories of tenant
client employee and friend all get mixed
together in the context of a business
that isn't really created to earn money
but to provide the owner with a certain
type of life
I'm not saying that this is evil I'm
just saying that is a confusing scenario
for everyone involved your nine tenants
who tried to kick you out and take over
your hotel
we're so deluded as to imagine that you
were running a highly profitable
business if they were to compare your
hotel to the real for-profit hotels run
by Chinese entrepreneurs near the bus
stations in almost every city in
Thailand they would soon see the
difference the small hotels that
actually turn a profit
don't look anything like your living
room and the owner won't play the guitar
for you either yes I have directly known
several cases where the girlfriend or
wife tries to steal the property from
under the husband or the boyfriend
whatever the case may be I have known
situations like that not that I was
involved just because I talked to a lot
of people who were these types of
foreign entrepreneurs it's common it
seems a little bit shocking that in this
case the young women showed up but more
apparently only there for a few days
before they had this scheme in Joe's
version of events he says that they met
and talked with a Thai woman who runs a
runs a tanning salon or waxed along and
a beautician something like that and
that that that woman may have put the
idea into her head
that I think reflects how widespread how
typical that type of scheme is oh you
moved into his house well here's how
much the rent is here's how you can kick
him out and take it over painful very
common and if if you've lived out there
and you've talked to people you've heard
a lot of stories of that and sometimes
they can involve corrupt police officers
sometimes they can involve organized
crime coming into muscle you out
sometimes just extended family uncles in
it can get ugly quick and that's the
kind of game where you don't think
you're playing a dangerous game you
think you've got a completely serene
hippie business
whether it's on the banks of the mekong
river or the side of the ocean or
downtown Bangkok you think you're doing
your thing and then you find out just
how dangerous the Cape myths you know
dangerous the people around you turn out
to be said whoo vegans are not immune to
this side of human nature as you spend
time in Thailand I'm sure you're gonna
be many examples of Westerners who have
fallen down the rabbit hole after
opening their own business with this
type of self reinforcing ego trip in
some ways you may have been saved from
falling into this pattern by the
shopping shocking experience you've just
had I don't mean that in any kind of
facetious or sarcastic sense at all
I expect that you're really going to
re-evaluate your priorities and realize
that your most important relationships
are with those ties small business
owners who are there permanently and not
with the short-term guests who will say
anything to you create an ego trip for
you and sometimes sleep with you with
whatever mix of motives I'm not saying
this cynically at all and I'm not
insinuating that the women involved are
all seeking free commendation or
airplane tickets in Thailand huge
numbers of female tourists will sleep
with you simply because they're looking
for a relationship that lasts until
their next departure three weeks three
days or three hours although I
personally never played that game I
don't hate the players and I don't hate
the game itself either ie sex isn't evil
however for the middle-aged landlords
who are in a position to host
couchsurfers it can be a huge ego trip
can gradually lead to strange delusions
and end up looking like a cult how true
that is
I feel like digressing from this letter
now to provide like ten different except
Lesseps een I knew a very very fat
western guy and he was gay in Thailand
so big fat gay white guy and he opened a
house
and he had you know younger skinnier
boyfriend's not hating on it um when
there's a scandal and people talking it
looks bad it looks as big but you know
I'm not hating and unknotting the
players not in the game and I remember
in in parallel the Joe vestige which in
some ways you know some similarities I
was reminded of this because you know
that guy who ran that house he made
people who showed up and wanted to use
his facilities he made them sign a
morality statement he made them sign a
promise that while they were there they
would be strictly vegetarian and there
were some other things like they
wouldn't think evil thoughts or
something like there were some other
kind of the moral commitments that his
guests were expected to make and he
himself the big fat white guy he would
binge on fried chicken you know and I
got this story straight from the horse's
mouth of someone who was there and you
know the person who told me she was
vegetarian all the time anyway but you
know she's there she really didn't like
signing this contract and then she has
to see this guy eating chicken and she
has to see his whole you know kind of
sex life a lot of these setups the
category of friend and landlord employer
and employee they all get mixed up
together and when there's a religious or
spiritual element a political element in
this case a vegan element gets
complicated and it gets invidious you
get strong emotions and hatred and
resentment and look in that example that
that guy eating fried chicken he might
not even know that people are hating and
resenting him he might think business as
usual and things are going great and you
know the people around him are building
up resentment the dangerous thing about
this cycle is that the leaders
themselves may not feel that there may
leadership decisions the landlord
basically creates a crossroads to
attract a certain type of person and
even if he or she just passively reacts
the people who show up he or she can end
up in a pretty dangerous ego trip I
would say the same about someone who
opens a yoga studio and then tends to
only meet people who practice yoga and
believe in magical rock crystals
homeopathy etc in that scenario the
owner of the yoga studio is not going to
interact with people to challenge their
beliefs and say look you're going off
the deep end with this magical rock
[ __ ] after a few years it is easy
for people to convince themselves that
everyone ie everyone they meet believes
in the hate same half-crazy [ __ ]
that they believe in themselves so
obviously this is something I've seen
happen like in Western academia it's
something I've seen happen in Eastern
Buddhism and it's something you can see
happen within vegan s whatever like
subculture within veganism you're
talking about you put up that flag
create a crossroads and then only
like-minded people are showing up and
reinforcing whatever your assumptions
are whatever your values are including
maybe your deluded view of yourself
you're on an ego trip that you're the
great leader of this vegan movement or
whatever it is my impression is that
you've only been running this small
hotel in Thailand for a short time but
ask yourself how much contact with
normal Thai people do you really have
when you have that contact how much of
it is really discussing the problems in
their lives yes the language barrier is
a factor but I'm sure you already know
that normal Thai businessmen are very
different from the people you generally
interact with in the vegan bubble I'm
sure you never decided to live in a
bubble of people who reinforce your
opinions and assumptions but it can
happen to you anyway for the future of
vegetarianism this is a deeper issue
than you might at first suspect and not
because I'm a great fan of norm
people look but look if you believe that
veganism is not just for people who
agree with your political views if you
believe that veganism is for everybody
then it doesn't just mean that you're
happy when Bill Clinton becomes vegan
and I wasn't happy I felt a bit shocked
and stunned when I found out Bill
Clinton was vegan and then he stopped
being vegan a few years later and he
thought what is this about oh sure on
some level naturally we all kind of
cherish this delusion that vegans are
going to be people we have something in
common with politically morally
ethically we want to think we have a lot
in common with other vegans but if you
think veganism is for everybody then
it's not just for people who agree with
you and you you can't just be happy when
you find out Bill Clinton is vegan in
theory you've got to be happy if you
find out George Bush has become vegan
and that all kinds of people who
disagree with you fundamentally about
politics ethics and the meaning of life
are also getting involved with veganism
veganism can't just be for athletes
veganism can't just be for bikini models
veganism can't just be for left-wing
socialists it can't just be for
Buddhists or Hindus or Christians or
skeptical atheists I think a lot of
institutions consciously and
unconsciously are doing the opposite
where they're wanting to narrow the
focus of who they deal with they're
wanting to exclude more and more people
so they can have a type of veganism that
just affirms their own values and their
own self perception it just builds on
their own ego trip for one of a better
word so writing to Joe bestir I think
that several of your recent reflections
have talked about your nine tenants as
suffering from the same type of ego trip
his nine tenants he was living with nine
conventionally attractive younger women
all at the same time and this is part of
why people hate him on the internet
despicable visible unthinkable
impossible
they were paying rent they were as
tenants right normal vegans aren't
bikini models on Instagram
normal vegans might care about things
like animal rights in Thailand elephants
tigers deforestation etc that your
guests never talk about that I've never
seen on any of their YouTube channels or
web sites party from the text
none of the YouTube presents connected
to the Thai fruit festival all these
vegans in Thailand writing about film
but none of you I mean none of you are
just having an honest human reaction to
something like deforestation species
going extinct to elephants in zoos
elephants and cages to Tigers at tourist
attractions anything I don't expect you
guys to all be philosophers and
political scientists deeply involved
with you know social and political
reality around you but yeah I expect to
see more substance just sincere informal
reaction to the world around you than
I've ever seen through any of the social
media connected this event that's you
know that's disturbing to me and right
now with this controversy everyone's
lining up to call Joe best scumbag
normal people not to preach when normal
people look at the web presence for the
Thai fruit festival for this whole
vegans and talent movement who's who do
you think looks like a scumbag hey maybe
you all look like scumbags man like
freelee and durianrider by their own
description of who they are I'm not
hating durianrider
former drug addict in and out of jail I
don't know what the charges were I don't
I've just heard him talk about being in
and out of jail and you know if you look
drug addiction touches so many people
everybody watching this I expect you'll
have a relative or a friend from high
school you will have known somebody
whose lives have been destroyed by drug
addiction whether or not they went in
and out of jail whatever the story was
if you have a friend who was a former
drug addict and they turned their life
around the way durianrider did you would
be elated you'd be so happy room say wow
that's so great you went from being a
drug user and a convict to being some
kind of fitness guru some kind of
fitness leader and a vegan and Wow I'm
so happy for you that's great the fact
that he's lean and muscular you know
again in terms of how normal people look
at them durianrider could never get
elected as the mayor of a small town and
one of the reasons would be that people
would look at well what is his criminal
record I don't know I've never heard any
one of the vegan community even ask that
question and you know I'm sure it's a
public record you look at maybe it's
completely trivial the charge is put
into jail for maybe not you know is
durianrider a scumbag what makes you a
scumbag how do you think the world views
a group of tourists who just go and
celebrate this life of luxury and
self-indulgence in Thailand and like in
terms of disconnect from social reality
you don't even have videos complaining
about the cockroaches Chiang Mai is full
of cockroaches you don't have any
reaction to just witnessing human
poverty dislocated refugees I mean like
I I heard something on the radio I don't
I don't read like and I don't I don't
watch TV I don't read a lot of
mainstream media but I heard somebody on
the on the radio is a political radio
show and they were talking about one of
the members the the Kim Kardashian
family going to Thailand and apparently
her mobile phone was not working
temporarily so just during a drive from
the airport to some luxury hotel some
luxury residence just during that drive
because her cell phone wasn't working
she was looking out the window and she
was you know she had this reaction to
what she saw you know
she saw people living in bamboo huts I'm
guessing I'm guessing she saw the stray
dogs walking the streets I'm guessing
she saw some people who have no shoes
maybe she saw some people working in
rice fields whatever but apparently she
had this reaction to the the poverty in
probably the shanty towns or whatever
that she saw during five minutes of
Thailand and like the reason why this
was discussed in the political radio
show was listening to was that you know
the Kardashian family are famously
shallow and just obsessed with a life of
luxury and self-indulgence how much
worse are we as a vegan community if we
have hundreds of people going to and
participating in this event at Thailand
and like not one person has some kind of
authentic spontaneous reaction to those
types of issues apparently not one
person during their vacation reads a
newspaper and just feels concerned about
what's happening on the streets or like
not one person is going past a monument
or museum or a building and they see all
the military man with machine guns and
you know like that's just natural even
if you're completely ignorant of
politics to be like gee why is that
building so heavily guarded then you ask
someone you know ask a local Thai person
and they tell you oh it's because
they're afraid of political protests
that were pro-democracy protests there
in the past so the military is guarding
that building don't have to be brilliant
you don't have to be a genius but like
just to have some kind of reaction to
what's happening outside of your life
that seems to consist of nothing but
like showing off your body at the beach
and getting your nails done and taking
photographs of a plate full of fruit
like man we've seen what a watermelon
looks like all right if you were in
Thailand during 2015 during the military
dictatorship what photograph would you
want to look back on ten years from now
and tell your friends about why didn't
you take photographs related to the
political events the military
dictatorship the poverty the elephants
the Tigers
you picked the issue and say wow that
was something meaningful I witnessed
that moment in time
you know where gee this this picture
reminds me of what was gone
you think ten years from now even
yourself if you're the one took the
photograph you're gonna look back and go
oh yeah I remember that watermelon I
remember I remember getting that
pedicure oh how is your life that much
more shallow than the standard set by
Kim Kardashian in her family but I've
never seen a single comment from any of
the participants at the Thai fruit
festival about the fact that there's a
military dictatorship that replaced an
elected government a looming succession
crisis following the crown prince's
sudden divorce etc etc these are all
things you might read about in the
newspaper when you're in Thailand it's
not it's not deep it's not hidden it's
not secret some of these people talk
about gender issues in the abstract but
have you seen a single statement on the
status of women in Thailand or in Thai
Buddhism the whorehouses are ubiquitous
in Chiang Mai and throughout all of
northern Thailand but they seem to be
invisible to these vegan feminists ie
the same vegan feminists who are
attacking Jill best for being a subhuman
terrible person why is there so little
interest in the real world while there's
so much interest in Joe best sex life
people film themselves eating mangos in
front of a Buddhist temple or riding
their bicycles past [ __ ] houses but
there seems to be absolutely zero
interest in the real world even in the
limited sense that a normal tourist
might have curiosity about these things
I'm not suggesting that anyone or
everyone is going to engage in deep
political analysis of the situation but
yes I would expect some vegans to be
talking about something more meaningful
than a life of total self-indulgence
makeup eating swimming bicycle upgrades
etc etc veganism defined entirely in
terms of vanity is going to be Vichy
aided by that same vanity
I don't think that vanity is evil but
the mix of extreme vanity shallowness
and self-indulgence
accompanied by claims of over-the-top
compassion and saving the world from
bikini models who don't seem to give a
[ __ ] about anything but where their next
wax job is coming from is a combination
that anybody would find laughable
my suggestion for your channel and for
your own sanity frankly is just that you
try to engage with the reality outside
of your walls a bit more when was the
last time you saw anyone connected to
the Thai fruit festival mentioned Thai
politics even in passing when was there
a YouTube video that even commented
momentarily quote you know I've been
feeling kind of worried about what I've
been reading in the newspapers lately I
am NOT suggesting that someone like
jalisa Galatia still is going to start
reading foreign policy magazine and I'm
not suggesting that your channel is
going to become profound and morose
either
however the vegan movement within
Thailand has in 2015 no connection to
the reality of Thailand I've never once
seen any of these vegans in Thailand
even remark on the poverty they witness
eg refugees from civil wars in Burma etc
nor have I seen any of them talking
about animal cruelty in Thailand animal
agriculture in Thailand the total
deforestation of the country it brings
that the extinction of wild species etc
one of your comments mentioned the Thai
owners of a small restaurant some small
restaurant he has a business connection
with a person with I know maybe you
could interview them in a video
via a Thai translator the mechanic who
fixes your bike in Chiang Mai is
probably either a Burmese refugee or
allow speaking immigrant you could talk
to that guy on camera too couldn't you
I'm just talking about having some
meaningful connection with the real
world outside of the vegan bikini model
bubble okay now these examples are [ __ ]
my own experience lotions are an ethnic
minority within Thailand they're not all
migrants from Laos some of them are
migrants from us--and in the northwest
but yeah probably the guy who fix your
bike either his first language is Lao or
his first language is Burmese and again
this does not have to be hard-hitting
documentary filmmaking but if some of
your videos are going to be interviewing
bikini models about this kind of stuff
couldn't you also have a video where
you're just talking to the guy who fixes
your bike
and like you know again in Thailand even
something that casual would would ground
this this so-called movement in some
type of greater social reality and like
man it's painful to see people using the
language of a political movement to
describe this type of totally
self-indulgent vacation I've seen real
protests that were really you know
trying to raise awareness and protest an
issue in the face of public and
difference or public scorn like in
France the status of vegans is really
terrible because that the French culture
is so strongly in favor of meat-eating
you're posting videos of a bunch of
white people who are all inside the
vegan bubble who are all on vacation
together and who are all already vegan
hanging out and you say that's a
flashmob
you say that's a protest you say that's
a movement it's none of those things and
like in a way I mean that's it's
insulting to the real activists who or
who are really doing the work all over
the world I mean you know Toronto Pig
save they're a protest movement in
Toronto obviously and they show up at
the slaughterhouse and where the trucks
full of pigs about to be killed are
waiting and so on you know this is a
kind of meaningful confrontation with
the meat industry and you know whatever
whether you call that a flashmob a
protest what-have-you I mean that is a
political movement no joke what I see
going on in Thailand and what the whole
world sees going on in town isn't hot a
movement I'm not saying that the future
of veganism shouldn't be bikini models
on Instagram I'm saying that it can't be
all right and like even in hip-hop even
in rap music one of the things you most
commonly hear is social media is
destroying hip-hop the future of rap
music can't be
Instagram models you know and you know
rap music's not that deep a lot of it's
about absolutely nothing but still even
in that art form in that part of the
music industry people really feel that
tension a veganism is a relatively deep
and complicated and politically loaded
subject yeah like I said five minutes
ago veganism defined entirely in terms
of vanity is going to be vitiated by
that same vanity my letter to Joe best
continues if you had been living in
South Africa under apartheid you would
have had access to great quality fruit
also South Africa still farmed some of
the best fruit on earth but you would
look back in your life with regret if
you had produce nothing but videos blogs
and photographs of the most trivial and
vain nonsense imaginable mind the latest
manicure etc etc how shallow is a
movement that thus has its eyes closed
to everything except for the artificial
paradise presented within the dotted
lines of resort hotels and vegan
restaurants if these vegan festivals
were being held in the Ukraine or Iran
would vegans be similarly oblivious to
everything aside from their lives of
self-indulgence
I hope this letter gives you something
to think about beyond the limits of what
your critics have to say about you
what I find interesting what your case
is precisely that it raises these deeper
and broader issues what is the future of
veganism what is the future of Thailand
the future of veganism is not going to
be ten million Instagram models writing
10 million blogs about hair and makeup
the future of Thailand is not going to
be 10 million colonies of self-obsessed
vegan athletes photographing themselves
on bicycles and posing with plates of
fresh-cut fruit
that won't be the future because it
can't be that's an illusion of a
perpetual vacation that isn't even real
during the few weeks that people pretend
to live it at such great expense I know
what the real Chiang Mai is like and I
know that it is being edited out of all
these videos intentionally or
unintentionally but people who are
pretending to live the dream when you
think about the future of veganism the
challenge is not gonna be adapting to
include scumbags like Joe best it's
going to be adapting to include all
kinds of people who have nothing in
common who represent totally different
political views and so on in a
meaningful movement for social change